# imagination

Collection of tools for manipulating various disc image formats.

Once the project is finished, each tool should work as follows:  
`./ext2iso input.ext [output.iso]`
- Should print out result to stdout if there is no 2nd argument
- Should accept stdin in case no argumens was provided
- Should eventually support multi-threading
- Show a progress bar with percentage in the cli mode if the output file is specified


### Quick format reference:

- .b5i|.b6i is a Blindwrite image file.
- ^- .b5t|.b6t 
- .bin|.raw is a standard Windows format image file (or XCDRoast or Cdrdao?)
- ^- .cue is a CDRwin cue sheet for a .bin|.raw image
- ^- .toc is a Cdrdao's cue sheet for a .bin|.raw image
- .bwi
- .bwt
- .c2d is am Easy Media Creator/WinOnCD CD image File
- .cdi is a DiscJuggler image file. Comes in versions 2.0 and 3.0! (2336/2352)
- .cif is an Easy CD Creator disc image format
- .crf
- .cso is a Compressed ISO disc image format
- .daa|.gba (Direct Access Archive) is a proprietary file format associated with PowerISO for Windows.
   DAA image files are zlib- or lzma-compressed ISO images chunk-by-chunk
- .ecm is an Error Code Modeller container format
- .fcd
- .gcm is a Gamecube ISO format
- .gbi is a gBurner image format
- .img|.ccd is a CloneCD image file
- ^- .ccd|.sub is a CloneCD 'cue sheet' for .img
- .isz - UltraISO image file
- .lcd
- .mdf is an Alcohol 120% image file
- ^- .mds is an Alcohol 120% 'cue sheet' for .mdf
-    ^- .mdx is a combination of .mdf and .mds
- .nrg is a Nero Burning Rom image file
- .pdi is an InstantCOPY image file
- .uif is a MagicIso proprietary compressed disc image file format
- .vcd
- .vdi
- .xbx is an Xbox ISO image file


### List of tools used as a base for this project:

`cdi2iso`
>cdi2iso is a very simple utility to convert DiscJuggler image to the standard ISO-9660 format.
original code author is Salvatore Santagati (http://freecode.com/users/salsan)

`pdi2iso`
>pdi2iso is a very simple utility to convert an instant copy bin image to the standard ISO-9660 format.
original code author is Salvatore Santagati (http://freecode.com/users/salsan)

`mdf2iso`
>mdf2iso is a very simple utility to convert an Alcohol 120% bin image to the standard ISO-9660 format, cue sheets, or TOC file.
original code author is Salvatore Santagati (http://freecode.com/users/salsan)

`b5i2iso`
>B5I2ISO is a very simple utility to convert a BlindWrite BIN image to the standard ISO-9660 format.
original code author is Salvatore Santagati (http://freecode.com/users/salsan)

`nrg2iso`
>Nrg2Iso is a linux utility for converting CD (or DVD) image generated by Nero Burning Rom to ISO format.
original code author is Gregory Kokanosky (http://gregory.kokanosky.free.fr/v4/)

`bin2iso`
>original code author is DeXT (de_xt@hotmail.com)

`daa2iso`
>original code author is Luigi Auriemma (http://aluigi.org/mytoolz.htm#daa2iso)

`uif2iso`
>original code author is Luigi Auriemma (http://aluigi.org/mytoolz.htm#uif2iso)

`xbx2iso`
>xbiso, a xdvdfs iso extraction utility developed for linux
original code author is Tonto Rostenfaunt (http://sourceforge.net/projects/xbiso/)

`iso2bin`
>original code author is loser; EdcEcc is based on 'check' by crusador / kalisto


### License

GPL 2.0
